Income vs food insecurity
This scatter plot highlights a strong negative correlation between median household income and food-insecure households within each state. 
Food insecurity is higher amongst households with low income or suffering from poverty. 
There are, however, some interesting cases to study further since several states do not follow the trend. 

First case study: Maryland
Maryland has the highest income ($95, 572) but not the lowest level of food insecurity (10.10%). 
Despite being ranked the wealthiest state in the U.S, 1 in 9 people suffer from food insecurity (Feeding America, 2020a).
Maryland´s cost of living is higher than the national average. 
In addition, wage growth has been stagnant in recent years whilst the cost of housing, health care and child care have increased, resulting in many people sacrificing food over other basic necessities (Maryland Food Bank, 2020).
This high level of food insecurity is further explained by the lack of coordination between programs combatting food insecurity. 
Maryland needs to improve efficiency and work on streamlining eligibility as many people fall between the cracks: 
many people do not fall below the poverty baseline to be eligible for SNAP support, but do not have a high enough income to afford sufficient amounts of food (Government of Maryland, 2017). 

Second case study: New Hampshire and Iowa
Meanwhile, certain states are combating food insecurity exceptionally well, such as New Hampshire, which has the lowest food insecurity (6.60%) yet not the highest income ($86,900). 
New Hampshire makes efficient use of the USDA program through which 50 local food programs can assist 15,000 people per year (McCord, 2018). 
Similarly, the organisation Gather NH is also innovative with its approach as not only do they make use of local grocers, who provide them with generous donations, but also find ways to limit food waste, such as turning fresh carrots into soup or cakes before they go to waste. 
Iowa, which has the third-lowest food insecurity (7.90%) but below-average income ($66,054), is also a good example of how assistance programs can greatly aid people suffering from food insecurity. 
Apart from formal support, informal support from friends and families has also been seen to contribute substantially to people's economic and social well being, especially for immigrant households (Garasky, 2012).

Third case study: Mississippi
Mississippi follows our graph trend, with the highest food insecurity (15.7%) and lowest income ($44,787). 
Mississippi has been the state with the highest level of food insecurity for the past eight years (Move for Hunger, 2018). 
The lack of income in Mississippi is a significant cause of food insecurity. 
With 50 of its 82 counties categorised as in persistent poverty, many of the residents cannot afford nutritionally adequate food (Hossfeld and Rico Mendez, 2018). 
What is hidden behind the graph, however, is the fact that the eligibility requirements for the SNAP program are the strictest in Mississippi compared to all other states (Mac Innis, 2014). 
Food insecurity in Mississippi is thus not only an economic issue but also an institutional failure to care for its citizens.


Unemployment vs food insecurity 
This scatter plot shows a positive correlation between the unemployment rate and food-insecure households.
It is interesting to analyse states that do not follow the graph trend. Further research enables us to quantify the impact of unemployment compared to income on food insecurity.

1. Mississippi follows our first income graph trend, with the highest food insecurity and the lowest income level. 
However, this state deviates from the unemployment trend. 
Indeed, Mississippi does not have the highest unemployment rate (unemployment rate of 5.4%). 
Therefore, one might deduct that income is the greatest cause of food insecurity in Mississippi. 
In reality, there are other structural issues at play.
Mississippi suffers from food deserts, defined as areas with poverty rates above 20% and more than 33% of the population living over a mile from the closest possible supermarket. 
People cannot afford transportation costs and thus have inadequate access to food (Mac Innis, 2014). 

2. New Hampshire has the lowest food insecurity rate and second to lowest unemployment rate (2.5%). 
The low unemployment rate, alongside their efficient assistance programs, drive the low food insecurity rate in New Hampshire. 
Although our state by state analysis provides a detailed view of food insecurity, this approach has weaknesses. 
Indeed, food insecurity varies greatly between counties within a state. Our graph only shows that New Hampshire does not struggle with food insecurity relative to other states. 
The reality, however, is that 125,590 people are struggling with hunger, including 1 in 8 children (Feeding America, 2020b). 
Even in greater Portsmouth, the wealthiest county in New Hampshire, there is increasing homelessness of the working poor struggling with food insecurity (McCord, 2018). 
Clearly, even the states with seemingly low levels of food insecurity still need to combat this issue.


Ethnicity vs food insecurity 
These scatter plots illustrate how ethnic groups are disproportionately affected by food insecurity. 
They both highlight a weak positive correlation between non-Hispanic Black residents and food-insecure households, as well as a weak negative correlation between White residents and food-insecure households. 
Since past research has already exhaustively shown ethnicity as a significant factor of food insecurity, the weak correlation found from these graphs may highlight a limitation in our approach. 

Although showing a weak correlation, Mississippi has the highest level of food insecurity and the second greatest number of non-Hispanic black residents. 
This is supported by research, which shows that of the 670,000 recipients of SNAP in Mississippi, 61% are African American (Move for Hunger, 2018). 
Like other variables, ethnicity does not itself cause food insecurity. 
Indeed, racism embodies an institutional problem in the U.S: states tend to provide fewer funds and support to areas with a major black population. 
