Literature Review
Food insecurity is a prevalent issue in the United States with over 35 million people suffering from food insecurity in 2019 (USDA, 2019). 
Food security is defined by the USDA as the “access by all people to enough food for an active and healthy life”  (USDA). 
Food insecurity is thus a fundamental issue to tackle as it undermines the right to living a fulfilling life. 
Unfortunately, however, this issue is often overlooked as the United States is seen as an affluent and developed country, whilst 11.1% of the population struggles to feed themselves adequately. 

Rates of food insecurity are more prevalent in poor households and disproportionately affects ethnic groups (Myers and Painter, 2017). 
Food insecurity is therefore more than just a health problem; it exacerbates already standing inequalities within the U.S. 
Some scholars have even referred to food insecurity as “a symptom of a complex and multidimensional social disease” (Morales 2020). 
Part 1 of our research thus aims to explore the underlying social and economic causes of food insecurity, including income, unemployment rates and ethnic background (Coleman - Jensen et al., 2019 ). 
Although the correlation between these factors and food insecurity have been identified with past research, past studies have only been concerned with food insecurity on a national level. 
Our research, however, aims to compare food insecurity, as well as the influence of these named factors, amongst the different states in order to provide a more detailed view of how food insecurity varies within the United States. 
Our research also aims to build on past research by contextualising the graphs. Our research will further analyse those states which do not follow the overall trends, in order to understand whether there are more significant causes for food insecurity in those states
or whether effective policies have been introduced. 
Our research found that even those states which effectively use local policies to combat food insecurity, still rely heavily on the federal Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), which provides nutrition assistance benefits to low income individuals and families (Mabli et al., 2013). 
The impact of SNAP participation will be further explored in Part 3 of our research.

PART 2 ZEYNEP's PART


As shown in part 1, policies such as SNAP play a fundamental role in combating the structural nature of food insecurity in the United States, 
a situation which will only be made worse by COVID-19. 
Therefore the third part of our research will focus on the impact of the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, 
the largest food assistance program administered by The Food and Nutrition Service (FNS). 
Past research has already shown the necessity of these programs (ref) but once again our research will look at SNAP participation 
on a state by state basis in order to identify those states in which greater SNAP penetration is needed as well as those states where the 
SNAP program is not sufficient enough to combat food insecurity. 
Through this analysis we will show that SNAP participation, which is funded at the federal level and so should be bipartisan, is actually significantly greater in Democrat governed states, 
ultimately showing that food insecurity is also a political issue. 
Our aim through this analysis is therefore to both advocate for the removal of political barriers in the states where these exist, and for additional support, possibly temporarily to mitigate the effects of COVID-19,  in the states with high levels of food insecurity. 
Our intention through this research is to identify areas where SNAP can be easily optimized because past research 
has shown that “an increase in weekly benefits of $42 for SNAP households would lead to a 62 percent decline in food insecurity” (Gundersen et al., 2018)
 
 
