The bar chart shows the unemployment rate by race or ethnicity for the third quarter of 2019 vs the third quarter of 2020. 
It illustrates how the Covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent containment-measures have affected various demographic groups in regards to unemployment.

 

For example, whilst White Americans have seen a 132.4% increase, unemployment rates amongst African-Americans/Black Americans and Hispanic/Latino have increased by 135.7% and 166.7% respectively. 
This could be attributed to the fact that these communities are more likely to work jobs that are more vulnerable to the economic downturn, such as jobs in the service sector (Feeding America, 2020). 
In the US, the highest percentage of workers occupied in hospitality or leisure (service sector) are African-American and Hispanic with 24% (U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, 2019). 
With businesses closing, staff had to be laid off, and this especially affected those who work in the service sector, with jobs that cannot be performed from home. 
Moreover, during the COVID-19 outbreak, federal, state, and local authorities have become stricter with immigration restrictions, and have largely targeted Hispanic/Latino households. 
This has caused many of these households to feel uncomfortable going out to buy food (Morales, Morales and Beltran, 2020).

 

The highest increase, namely 278.6% was witnessed amongst Asian Americans.
Although 54% (U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, 2019) of Asian Americans work in the Management industry which has only seen an increase of 5.1 % in unemployment between February 2020 and April 2020 (Dvorkin, 2020), the sharp increase in overall unemployment among Asian-Americans can be explained by the increased hatred and discrimination towards them since the start of the pandemic. 
Called by some the “Chinese flu”, COVID-19 and the rise in anti-Asian xenophobia has rendered Asian food insecure households more afraid to go out and buy food compared to their White counterparts (Morales, Morales and Beltran, 2020). 
