Our research found that income and unemployment are significant causes of food insecurity, 
yet when analysing certain states more in depth we found that structural issues, such as lack of policy eligibility or the existence of food desserts, also lead to higher rates of food insecurity. 
Despite our research not showing a strong correlation between ethnicity and food insecurity, due to the limitations of the data sets used for these visualizations, 
ethnic minorities do in fact disproportionately suffer from food insecurity. 
From our state by state analysis we found that food insecurity is a prevalent issue in every state in the U.S, 
even those states with a ‘low level’ of food insecurity, which is now being exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic.

Our analysis of COVID-19’s impact on food insecurity revealed that the current pandemic has left more Americans struggling with unemployment and food insecurity than the Great Recession. 
We found a very strong correlation between unemployment and food insecurity in the US, which reiterates the idea that unemployment is an important determinant of food insecurity. 
By analysing food insecurity’s determinants holistically through state case studies, we found that racial minorities have been disproportionately affected by the current crisis, as a higher percentage have lost their jobs due to long-standing racial inequalities and newly emerged xenophobia.


We found that the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) also plays a vital role in combating food insecurity in the U.S..
Our research revealed that SNAP participation, however, is still lacking in several states, and that this could be due to the political affiliation of states.

Looking ahead
From our findings, we wish to advocate for an increase in funding for SNAP in those states that are still struggling with food insecurity, 
as well as for the political barriers that are hindering SNAP promotion to be dismantled. 
We also urge policymakers to consider the effects of COVID-19, and the increased challenges facing ethnic minorities, 
in order to implement more effective and nuanced policies. 

