# Literature review
The positive progress in tackling food insecurity is being dramatically undermined, however, by the COVID-19 pandemic. 
Food insecurity rates had been improving since the Great Recession in 2008, and reached pre-recession levels in 2018 which were the lowest rates recorded in the last 20 years. 
However, the economic recession caused by the current pandemic has reversed these improvements made over the past decade (Morales, Morales and Beltran, 2020). 
Therefore, our aim in Part 2 is to show whether and how COVID-19 and its lockdown measures affected rates of food insecurity with regards to the 3 variables listed in part 1 (income, unemployment, race/ethnicity). 
In return, this analysis will also ultimately help us shed light on the overarching inequalities and policy issues prevalent in the U.S. which create food insecurity as a byproduct.   

 

Previous research has shown that given the new economic recession, rates of income (poverty) and unemployment have been the main determinants that have contributed to increased levels of food insecurity amid the pandemic (Feeding America 2020). 
Since the spring of 2020, millions of people started to newly experience food insecurity, alongside millions who had already been struggling with it before the pandemic even began (Feeding America. 2020).

 

As discussed above, the causes of food insecurity and the extent of its consequences go beyond just economic and financial factors, they are linked to longstanding issues of racial/ethnic disparities prevalent in American societies. 
The Census Bureau data shows that between May 28 and June 2, households of colour were twice as likely to report that they often did not have enough to eat, compared to their white counterparts (Maxwell, 2020). 

 

Through our data analysis and visualisations focusing on our three determinants, we will be able to draw correlations between our findings. 
Rather than staying within the confines of each determinant analysis, we will contextualise our quantitative findings to reach conclusions like that the disproportionate increase in unemployment among people of colour might be due to the type of jobs they work, which has its reasons rooted in structural racism. 
Currently, there are only a few peer-reviewed research articles done on food insecurity during the pandemic which focus on race - in fact, there is currently only one peer-reviewed article on this topic (by Morales, Morales and Beltran, 2020). 
Therefore, our analysis will add new insight into the issue as we dive deeper with a state by state analysis. 
Our project will shed light on some of the issues that might be overlooked when looking at the bigger picture.
