Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Programs (SNAP)
https://fns-prod.azureedge.net/sites/default/files/Measuring2013.pdf
https://fns-prod.azureedge.net/sites/default/files/Measuring2013Sum.pdf
SNAP provides nutrition assistance benefits to low income individuals/families, it’s the largest food assistance program administered by The Food and Nutrition Service (FNS).
SNAP targets the households most in need by providing them with additional benefits. 
To account for rising food prices, the the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act raised the maximum SNAP benefit by 13.6%, from April 2009. 
Difficulty of using household survey data when estimating effect of SNAP on food insecurity; 
“households that participate in SNAP can differ in systematic ways from households that do not (selection bias). For example, households that...have lower levels of food security are more likely to participate in SNAP. 
Therefore, initial differences in food insecurity between participants and nonparticipants may be greater than the ameliorative effects of the program”


Study on Urban vs Rural SNAP Participation
https://fns-prod.azureedge.net/sites/default/files/SNAPFS_Summary.pdf
Low or high access to food was determined by: 
distance to nearest supermarket, density (no. of shops), potential access (whether local are contained at least 1 supermarket), realized access (travel distance to store). 
Food insecurity levels were found to be similar in urban and rural households:
BUT accoridng to Feeding America: Rural counties accounted for “87% of counties with the highest rates of overall food insecurity” 
LOOK INTO THESE CONTRADICTING STATEMENTS 					
Geographic access to food generally didn’t impact impact food insecurity levels. WHAT ABOUT FOOD DESERTS THOUGH?
The effect of SNAP participation was similar for urban and rural households; 
both groups saw a decrease in food insecurity by about 5 to 10 percentage points after participating for 6 months. 2 CONTRADICTORY STATEMENTS?
“For rural households, evidence was mixed as to whether SNAP participation was associated with reduced food insecurity depending on the access measure used.”
